Over the years, it was less and less of a newcomer among the Akladians
someone who is not the son of the previous clan leader has become the clan leader.
Cryne is one of the exceptions. He comes from a noble lineage, however
his birth would rather be one of the clan's warchiefs.
He cut himself down with bravery, swordsmanship and ruthlessness
but the way to the top.

Even from the time of his youth, Lorin was destined to be his wife - later,
however, the Gallorae clan decided to break the deal with the Cryne by offering
Lorin to the then-king, Gawen Hagarthen's father. Cryne never gave up
meet him to care. He served the king indifferently, following his orders
zealously and without showing any hostility.

From the outset, Cryne was reluctant to the new habits that were starting to take
hold among the Akladians under the influence of their higher civilized subjects.
Cryne slept on skins thrown on the floor, not on a bed; he more willingly watched
underling swords and armor than the tricks of their jugglers and their dancers.

He married late for the Akladians, at the age of 30 - and she was his wife
a woman from the Akladian commune, not distinguished by either origin or beauty.
He was looking forward to a descendant for a long time - like many other Akladian
women, it seemed that his wife had been placed under a mysterious curse of
infertility. Finally, his wife bore him a son, but she herself fell into a fever.
Once one in life, Cryne had sent for an underling medic, once he gave up his
contempt for their cultures - but in vain. His wife died. The medic, of course,
followed soon follow her. Cryne had him chopped off his own head and sewed on a
pig's head.

From then on, Cryne hated underlings, and all that underlings symbolized.
He hated those who were friends with underlings, those who took them
women - especially those who were born of these unions.

Cryne did not take another wife - also unusual among the Akladians.
He did not take part in feasts and hunts, avoided calls to the royal court.
Instead, he devoted himself to war, war, and war again. He fought
with the rebels, while committing acts so cruel that even
Akladians - after all polished by three generations of life in Wesnoth -
they remembered with horror. When the rebels were lacking, he would go to the
frontier to be there rob and burn underlings living far from the king. It was then
that he made contacts with bandits, often using their services to get things done
they would become a stain on his honor if he had committed them personally.

At the time of ANO, Bor Cryne is around 40-45 years old. Light eyes (may be
yellowish, like those of Wesnoth orcs), perhaps they could be made very bright,
fiery. Remarkably masculine beauty. He is primarily a warrior who
he owes everything to himself. 
