{MSGW_Lorin _"He is the force behind the universe. He created the world and is
our father. He gave us the world to rule. One of his angels tried to stop us
from doing that, deceiving us and trying to imprison us in his garden, but a
messiah came from the Hagarthen clan. He told us that God desired us to wait no
more..."}
{MSGW_Lorin _"So we killed that evil angel and his minions to journey west. We
fought our way through the deserts and the swamps, fighting with nightmarish
creatures, not to mention lizards and green elves. I was raised hearing songs
about this epic journey."}

_"Carrenemoes have loyally served our kings for generations. I am Reme, son of
Raul. My ancestors, according to our family legends, were amongst those who led
our people in the great revolt and then in our epic escape through the desert.
They established large kingdoms in the lands of underlings, for which we paid a
steep price in blood.  Now... why do I wonder what was that price paid for?"


_"After Mal-Ravanal's defeat, Grekulak was trapped in the swamps, spending his
days roving in the morass and quagmire. Finally he came up with an idea. The
undead had been storming the world of Wesnoth for millenia. They never
succeeded, and often a very small group of brave living creatures - be they
elves, humans or dwarves - were able to defeat large hordes of undead. "
_"Grekulak's desire was to rule over the whole of the world. The art of
necromancy was only a means for him, not the end itself - at least, that's what
I think. Undead lack their own will, spirit, and intelligence and that seemed
to him to be the reason for their constant failures. So Grekulak decided that
in order to rule the world, he would need to use some race of living creatures
as his servants." 
_"I don't know about his twisted experiments - I would guess
that he attempted many of them - but he finally came to the conclusion that
neither orcs nor humans were well-suited for his goal. So he decided to breed a
race of his own." 
_"I have no idea how he was able to do it. It flies in the
face of the whole of our knowledge and if I had not seen the living proof that
he succeeded, I would have said it was impossible. He somehow crossed orcs and
humans, until he got a new race of merciless warriors. He crafted and shaped
them in every way, much as a smith crafts a sword. Yes, I am talking about the
Akladians. " 
_"He wished to use them as his tool for the conquest of the world.
He wanted warriors, not mindless slaves, so he taught them a religion in which
he, Grekulak, was God. It was he who would lead them. He created - or at least
strongly influenced - a whole new, brutal and violent, culture. Hatred for
elves, disdain for the mages are clear signs of the workings of Grekulak. Why
Akladians retained the concepts of honour and loyalty in the face of Grekulak's
indoctrination is unclear to me. " 
_"But at their core, the Akladians were
human. Human enough to want the same thing all humans in all ages have wanted.
Freedom. The right to choose their own way in the world. One of them, called
Hagarthen, announced that Grekulak was the tool of a false God, and led a
bloody rebellion." 
_"The rebellion left Grekulak's capital in ruins. The
Akladians escaped to the west, chased by Grekulak's allies, burning in deserts,
drowning in swamps, fighting the saurians tooth and claw to reach fertile
lands, and beset by all kinds of the most nightmarish of creatures. This really
was an epic journey; survived by less than a quarter of those who had left
Grekulak's lands." 
