There are few Akladians who have a fair complexion, and even fewer who have fair
hair. Blonde Akladians are hardly ever met at all - with the exception of the
Gallorae clan. From where among the Gallorae such unusual features arose,
no one knows. Rumors are that it was caused by the fact that it was during the
invasion all the men of this clan abandoned their wives and took instead wedding
notes. However, this may not be true, because apparently there are blondes among
them that had happened before during the escape from the garden beyond the
deserts to the east. Often, however, Gallorae's enemies reproached them for
their appearance, suggesting that they had a mixed-up origin. The Gallorae
themselves always tried to prove by deeds that they were suspicious of those who
are alien to them. Loyal to the king, courageous, happy in battle, they were
strong and a large clan. Despite themselves, however, they were often considered
to be one of the more important clans belonging to what would be called elsewhere
a "liberal" party. Although reluctant to ties with underlings, though
demonstratively religious and conservative, but because of their very appearance,
they were considered natural allies by all who they wanted to end the eternal
civil war against the underlings.

Even underlings considered Gallorae less savage and barbaric than others
Akladians. It is not known where this opinion came from; Gallorae themselves did
nothing to give them a reason for this belief. It was enough, however, for a
Gallorae to spare the life of some peasant who could not pay the tax so that the
rumor about them would soon go out to the nobility. It is true that the Gallorae
were often gentle with their own people subjects - it was not because of their
love for them. Gallorae were treating their subjects as their property and treated
them as their cattle, dogs, or pigs. They made sure their dogs had warm kennels
so that their cattle would not starve, they were not killing their pigs
unnecessarily - and they had exactly the same relationship to "their" underlings.
They did not differ much from many others Akladians. However, they were blond,
so automatically many believed them to be "his", to the endless annoyance of the
Gallorae themselves.

Nevertheless, the Gallorae clan has always been considered of more importance,
than it would actually result from his wealth, strength, or actual influence.
