"From what we could gather, Akladians across Vakladia were fighting each other.
Bor Cryne and his faction were slowly but steadily gaining an advantage, thanks
to the help of the orcs. Bandits and rebels - and sometimes the difference was
just in name - were roaming the land unchecked. Hard times were ahead."

"The winter was just ending when we returned to Freetown. Soldiers were singing
mirthful songs, waiting impatiently for the chance to see the faces of their
wives and children again." POCZĄTEK WIOSNY (THE BEGINNING OF SPRING)

"Akladians weren't happy seeing mages marching in the ranks, but the personal
authority of Gawen prevailed. However, he noticed that whatever objections
might raised vocally by Akladians, they seemed to not care about it as much as
their complaints indicated."

"When Deorien declared to my soldiers that they should address me by the name
of 'King Gawen Haldric Hagarthen,' they showed a great deal of enthusiasm. I
think this title was of little surprise to them. But their raucous enthusiasm
was surely a surprise to me."

"Ruvio insisted on leaving all Akladians in our army outside the city, in the
forest, but I refused. Of course, the inhabitants of Freetown weren't eager to
let Akladians into their city. But there were no serious incidents, much to
Ruvio's surprise."

"Gawen ordered his soldiers to march quickly to the temporary base that had
established in the plains north of Barnon. He was afraid that more enemy forces
would arrive, and wanted to tend to his wounded." LATO (SUMMER)

"Gawen, Ruvio and Karen didn't celebrate their victory. The bodies of the last
Akladians were still warm as they hurried from the battlefield. They entered
the forest of Raedwood with the hope that no one would follow them." JESIEŃ
(AUTUMN)

"Gawen's soldiers left Freetown and swiftly entered the woods. They marched
from dawn to dusk, until they found themselves at the border of Raedwood
forest." WIOSNA (SPRING)

"Gawen and his soldiers spent only a few days in Freetown. Huon Ryedric and
Mithrandil left the city and headed west. At dawn the following day, Gawen
marched to the south. Mithrandil's elves were eager to show their abilities,
finding the best paths through the forest." WIOSNA (SPRING)

"Entering the forests surrounding Barnon from the north, I could not stop
myself from thinking about the battle a few months ago, when I was betrayed and
left for dead on the battlefield. But then, if not for that betrayal and thata
battle, I would probably never met Ruvio and Karen..." LATO (SUMMER)

"Guides showed Gawen where Bontom was located. He and his army soon reached the
area. Of course his army was too big not to be noticed and his scouts reported
that enemies were preparing their defenses." LATO (SUMMER)

"Nothing broke the silence except the footfalls of the march of Gawen's
soldiers. Even the grass here seemed to be weak and fragile, as though it was
afraid to grow here. This was the Haunted Place, infamous throughout the
surrounding region." LATO (SUMMER)

"It was hoped that our small army could sneak succesfully out of Okladia, but
on the border we marched suddenly into outposts of the Okladian army. With
scouts reporting that King Buffin's main army was at our backs, we had no time
for finding another way. We had to hew our way through Akladian ranks." LATO
(SUMMER)

"I found a group of the people we Akladians referred to as the 'Dunefolk'. They
had some other name for themselves that, in their barbarian and unworthy language,
meant something like 'noble leader', but it mattered not, for we did not use that
name for them. They were mercenaries offering their services to anyone. They were
not like most of the rest of the underlings; their ancestors came here from distant
lands, but they accepted into their ranks anyone willing to take their vows and
abide by their traditions. Even some Akladians found a place amongst them."

"Of all the underlings living in Vakladia, these were they who had resisted us
most fiercely. In the last great battle, when all the other underlings were
running for their lives, the Dunefolk troops withstood us with determination
and honor. None left the battlefield alive; they fought and fell to the last
man. That's why we cut off their heads, hands and legs, so that in the
afterlife they would not be danger to us."

"Finally, the party reached the crossroads. The northern path led to Vattin,
the southern path to Reme's clan settlements. It was here that Reme Carrenemoe
decided to leave Lorin to her fate. " JESIEŃ (AUTUMN)

"After leaving the Forest of Raedwood, Gawen and his companions found
themselves faced with a problem: what to do next and how to fulfill the request
of Mithrandil. Gawen wasn't sure what it meant to 'find the real reason behind
the Akladian-Orcish alliance' and definitely had no idea how to accomplish
that."

"Fighting in the swamps of Saorduc had not made anyone happy and Gawen's
soldiers were delighted to leave the frozen fens. They were all mired in a
strange mix of mud and snow, and this was not improving their mood." ZIMA (WINTER)

"After seeing the atrocities committed by the orcs, Gawen's soldiers were
unusually silent. None joked nor sang, as had been the norm after their last
few battles. Each seemed to be thinking about their own families, their wives
and children."

"Bitter and depressed, having failed to interrogate a single orc leader who
knew anything of substance, Gawen and his troops headed home toward Freetown.
Along the way, they found a near-frozen orc, dying in the snow. 'Grekulak', it
said, and then expired." ZIMA (WINTER)

"A bitter-cold wind was blowing on the day when Gawen's army, guided by local
peasants, reached the hills where Haeltin was located. Ruvio explained that the
She-wolf of Haeltin had fought with Akladians as well as orcs, so she could be a
friend." ZIMA (WINTER)

"Ruvio complained that nothing good could be found in the Saorduc Swamps, but that
didn't stop Gawen. He reasoned that in the winter the swamps would be frozen and
the lizards would be much easier to defeat." ZIMA (WINTER)

"When we arrived, we found the city of the Oracle besieged. Four different
armies, each under a different leader, surrrounded it. This disunity seemed to
contribute heavily to fact the Oracle still could defend herself. Each army
seemed to siege the city on its own. But the city was ready to fall; our army
had arrived in at the last possible moment for relief."

"The Oracle was the title of a woman living in ruins of an old city. For
generations, there had always been one female mage with prophetic abilities
living there, so long that no one remembered now what the city had once been
named. Now it was just 'the city of the Oracle.'"

"This was my first contact with undead, and I was happy that my troops had
passed this difficult test. I hope future battles with Grekulak's forces will
also be won."

"The peasants told Gawen that the lord of the neighbouring territory, Bark O
Skagrrak, had kidnapped a young girl and was trying to force her to marry him.
The decision to save the poor girl came naturally for Gawen."

"King Buffin's army was right behind us - we could almost feel their breath on
our necks. As though this were not enough, we marched right into a knot of
Akladians."

"But I felt like a hunted animal. Everywhere I looked, I met eyes full of
distrust and disdain. I wasn't sure how long I could keep my secret; I tried
hard, but it was getting harder with every passing day. Did they know already?
Maybe they were just pretending they didn't? These were strange days, when I
felt both happy and terrified, when I was both trying to escape from - and wait
for - every hour."

"Gawen and his army marched out of Vattin. Bor Cryne wasn't waiting - realizing
that his only chance was to join with Grekulak's hordes advancing from the east,
he left his hideout with all forces he could muster... but by this time, many
Akladian lords and the greater part of the orcs had already abandoned him."

"Both forces met at the fields which were later called Orannon, which in Akladian
means 'battlefield'. This day was to be remembered for many generations to come -
and also by vultures and jackals, who couldn't expect to see such an abundant
number of bodies again for decades."

"Soon envoys came from other Akladian kingdoms. Easkladia had no king and Gawen was
asked to take over what was left of that kingdom. Others came from Okladia, but
these were not envoys, but refugees. Finally, to my surprise, Gawen's cousins, Luc
and Gauri Hagarthen from Guilcorta sent their own messengers."

"Lorin journeyed among the Ostans of the Dunefolk, taking the vows required to join
them, all the while searching for Majid Yahyazad. He took care of both her and her
child, raising the child as if it were his own son, and showing toward her the love
and respect he felt ought to be accorded to the She-Wolf of Haeltin. While rumors
cast doubt on their happiness together, there was no doubt of their devotion to
each other; they spent the rest of their days together. "
