Good morning,

First, I would want to thank you for the tremendous job you are doing with the ANO campaign. I think
it is safe to conclude it is now your campaign, since without you it would be dead. I downloaded
ano and when I saw how much you have contributed to the code, I was astonished. 

The reward for making the campaign are user comments and the thought that it was considered
good enough to people still care it. The fact that you considered it good enough to maintain
it is very rewarding. I confess that recently I visit wesnoth forums just to follow
the ANO thread :-). As I said, this is your campaign now, to the point that you can even remove
my name fromthe credits. Nevertheless, after following recent discussion initiated by Mica comments,
I would like to say few things. Remember English is not my native language - I do not want you to
think about me as pretenscious buffon, and it's hard to write what I want in foreign language, and
still get it straight without looking like arsehole.

I really spent a lot of time thinking about plot. At the time of creation of my campaign,
I felt there was lack of "grown up" campaign, so I decided to create one of my own. I am really
emotionally tied to this storyline. Most of the sentences have some purpose. As I said earlier,
this is your campaign, and its GPLed anyway, but if you or someone else would want to substantially 
change the storyline (like changing the relations between main characters, or psyche of some
characters, or SAVING THE KAREN!!!!), I would really want to change the name of campaign as well.
In other words, if there would be any mayor change to the storyline, 
please do not use "A New Order" name. I really loved my storyline, I really lived with it, and I really
hate the idea that someone would change it. I do not mean of course removing grammar error, or cutting
bits and there here, changing the speech register and like, I mean only substantial changes to character,
psycho, plot etc. 

However, there are some things which you can change with my full blessing. I want to write
about several things which I wanted to do, so you would ave better picture of the campaign.

In fact the ANO is about 2/3 of the length I intended at the beginning. But i get too tired in the end
and I resigned from few subplots.

1) Mithrandil and whole idea of elvish conspiracy to kill off Haldric descendants. 
I decided that it would not
add much, that it was too unbelievable, and removed it. However, there are still two remains: 
a) It has no sense for Mithrandil to have wrinkles. 
b) The following line can be removed:
in ano-29, line 67:
"The elves believed, that with his death the curse of Haldric which was put
long ago upon the Wesnoth and descendants of Haldric was finally relieved.
Mithrandil, the only elf ever with wrinkles, finally could die, gleefully"
It has no sense now. I forgot about that.

2) Initially I intended player to have chance to find out about Lorin. At the beginning, I wanted
player to find out that Lorin had older sister, who was poisoned; later I decided that it's better
to have it unsolved, partially because it was too much of work to add subplots. The only remain it
in ano-13.cfg, line 662, ano_lorin_knows_about_roe <- the intended use was that if Lorin knows
that Rob Roe told Gawen about poison, she will kill him sooner or later. Of course, hero would
only hear that Rob Roe got suddenly very sick and died, and only gossips that this could be poison. 
Otherwise, player would have chance to find out that it was Lorin who poisoned Gawen's mother. 
Later I changed it to be ambiguous and edited storyline accordingly.

3) Again, at the very beginning Ruvio was supposed to have 3 daughters; one would be dead at Freetown,
and third was supposed to be treacherous b*. I wanted her to betray Freetown; I played with several
reasons for why she did that a) that she was jellous about Gawen b) that she wasn't really Ruvio's
daughter (in other words that Ruvio's was betrayed by his wife) etc. Finally I decided that it
was too unbelievable from psychological point of view, and it would be better to have this
issue unsolved. Right now there is no sense in Ruvio having more daughters. 

4) "It left Grekulak's capital in ruins, and Akladians escaping to the west, chased by the Grekulak's allies, drowning in swamps, fighting the lizards and all kinds of most nightmarish creatures. This was really an epic journey survived by less than quarter of all people who left Grekulak lands" <- It is a mistake, explained to me by others. There are no swamps in wesnoth east. There should be desert, and maybe fighting with shapeshifters. I was too emotionally tied to the image of Akladians fighting the way through the
forests and drowning in swamps to change it :)

5) In first scenario, i introduced militia unit. I introduced it solely because I wanted
to play with creating units etc. It may be removed now.

"I know your questions, Lorin from Gallorae, clan which had more gold in hair
of their daughters than in their treasures. First answer is yes, you are.
Second is yes, he will be. third is no, you will never be"
The Lorin's questions were: Am I pregnant? Will this be son and future king of Vakladia? Will I live happily with Gawen?

In fact for me Lorin is my favourite character I created for this campaign. 

PS: As for balancing issues, I actually spent hours and hours and hours writing, balancing, editing 
savegames (I find out that wesnoth has debug features only at the very end of my work). But balance
was probably destroyed by changes in wesnoth etc. 

