Yes, guys, the ANO is back. Thanks to the tremendous effort by Spencer "The
Sigil" Cooley the campaign is again alive and kicking. This post is a shameless
advertisement, but I hope you all will forgive my all self-praising attitude.
Ours - campaign creators' and maintainers' - the only reward is when
players write you did a good job.

The "A New Order" was originally written for Wesnoth 0.9.3 (if I am not
mistaken) in 2005 year.  It was then at times abandoned, until some fans took a
job of maintaining it.  In addition, a load of people were contributing
patches, corrections and suggestions. The current version of ANO is effect of
effort made by Spencer "The Sigil" Cooley, who not only spent endless nights at
porting the campaign to the Wesnoth 1.9, but also reread all the story, and
corrected it to proper English. In addition, he rebalanced the factions and
scenarios (remember, ANO was written for Wesnoth 0.9.3). He contributed so much
that I felt I had no other choice that to do the same. As I had some free time,
I did my best to help him. Remember that Sigil made the bulk of the effort
porting to 1.9 and correcting my English. All hail Sigil!  Detailed changelog
may be found within ANO campaign.

Just one explanation: I wanted Sigil to make a release, but unfortunately, he
is a very busy man; I got his last email a month ago, saying that he is too
busy to write. Previous email was two months ago, saying, he is busy but he
will have time soon; Since the campaign is waiting for a release for almost a
half year now, I decided that it's the time; and I hope Sigil will forgive me I
have not waited more.

This campaign was the first to employ several features. Switching the leaders,
their armies and recruitment lists between scenarios required a lot of painful
work at the time of 0.9.7 and while now several other campaigns employ this
trick, in 2005 this was completely novel. The mid-scenario strategic maps were
previously used in one unfinished campaign, and I think they were first time used
to such extent and effect in ANO. Interrogations of enemy leaders was another
innovation introduced by ANO. Assigning points to the player depending on his
performance was yet another. 

In the past, people identified several shortcommings of the campaign. Some were
complaining that ANO lacks any music. Now we have pieces composed by Christian
Hellerberg especially for this campaign. Also, Nick Humphrey and Erik Rijshouwer
kindly agreed to let us use their music. Finally, we used music by Mattias
Westlund, Doug Hoffman and  Tyler Johnson. 

Few people were complaining about
the typos and awkward sentences (since I am Polish, usually I write according
to the idioms and flow of my native language). Well, since you are reading
this, you probably already noticed what they meant :). 
This was partially corrected in the past already by previous 
maintainers (thanks Typhoon and Turuk), but Sigil now read the whole storyline,
and rewrite some parts anew when necessary. 

Surprisingly few people complained about the art, but even this was corrected.
For this new release we commission professional artists to create portraits and
story images. We use art by Santiago Iborra, Łukasz Zaręba
plus several compositions by me and Sigil. While it resulted at lower number
of images and portraits overall, I hope the quality makes for the loss of the
quantity. 

I would want to use this opportunity to thanks all those who contributed to ANO
in the past. I've never had opportunity to say them how much I was grateful for
their contributions.

First of all, I want to thanks previous maintainers of ANO: they were typhoon
(Micheal P. Kochis), tapik (Otto Buchta) and Vincent Croisier (viorc). They
also spent numerous hours correcting bugs and typos. In addition I want to
thank a lot of other people:

* Turuk (he actually didn't like the campaign, but he spent nevertheless hours
  to correct typos and grammar. BTW the only person who said that the ANO had
  horrendous dialogue and the storyline needs changes. Thanks for keeping me
  humble :) ) 
* Vincent Croisier (viorc) for team coloring the sprites
* Peter Geinitz (shadow aka wayfarer) for sprites corrections
* unsung, ott, capitol, ave, Tomek Sikorski (tomsik), teldar, tapik, derek,
  alxrem,malin keshar and T3st3r for bug reporting and typo corrections.
  Especially Malin for contributing ready patches :)
* all the translators of ANO: David Philippi, Jose Gordillo, Otto Tapik, Piotr
  Cychowski, Harry Dewulf, Joe Hansen, Geoffroy Douillie, Simon Sobisch,
  Brivido, Alexet Remizov, nikita, capitol, Stephen Bergstrom (tephlon), Eduardo
  Jose Papa, Nilgun Belma Buguner.
* And also elvish pillager, turin, jetryl, pickslide, Nils Kneuper, scott - for
  patience, hints and advices when I was developing the first version of ANO
  and the wonderful atmosphere at wesnoth forums they helped to create.
* The team of wesnoth.com.pl, Polish fansite of Wesnoth, for making a place
  for alpha release of ANO.


For those, who already played ANO in the past:
[spoiler]
Sigil argued that Andrey Yaranov was too easy-going person. He replaced him by
Majid Yahyazad, with the goal of adding more depth to the relations between him
and Lorin. He added also more touches to give more justice to Ruvio. I hope
you will like these changes -- even though I vetoed it in some places. 
Sigil also replaced Aragwaithi by Khalifa.
[/spoiler]

The campaign is now way too big, and I will add more images successively.
But I will try to find ways to make it smaller. And I have a question: 
I have impression, that images/portraits/transparent is not needed at all.
When portrait in high resolution is simply put in images/portraits, then
it seems to me that game engine scales it down for within-game conversation
purposes when necessary, and uses high-resolution for profile in unit description.
Am I correct? If so, I could shave more than 8 MB from the campaign...

In addition, after correcting the English, current translations are made
2/3 invalid. If you liked ANO in the past, please translate it to your
own language. 

I don't know whether I will keep Khalifa in future versions of ANO. The two
advantages were that a) some people don't like Aragwaithi, I don't know why; in 
fact at least one man said he won't play anything with Aragwaithi within
b) Khalifa were included within mainline, so it would mean smaller campaign.
However, the more I think about it, the less I like the idea; They do not
really fit the original story. But current Aragwaithi do neither -- current
Aragwaithi are different from the original faction, which had no back story then.
Well, I am waiting on your opinions in feedback forum in appropriate thread.

I will have not enough time now to fully maintain the campaign -- I think I will 
have no more than few hours weekly free to spare. Nevetheless, I will try
to release new versions of ANO whenever new bug fixes, translations or images
will be available. If someone would want to take over maintaining, send me
a message.
