Yes, guys, the ANO is back. Thanks to the tremendous effort by Spencer "The
Sigil" Cooley the campaign is again alive and kicking. This post is a shameless
advertisement, but I hope you all will forgive my all self-praising attitude.
Ours - campaign creators' and maintainers' - the only price is reading that
players write you did a good job.

"ESPECIALLY for when it was written, this code is outstanding. It would
literally take me months to do something like this, and I'm not certain I could
do it even half so well. A number of things this campaign does are 'firsts',
things that were later done by other code... It's a classic,"

"I played this campaign a long time ago (several years, I think...) and for me
it is one of the most underrated campaigns in Wesnoth. The storyline is very
interesting and there were many technical inovations that were later
incorporated in other campaigns "

The "A New Order" was originally written for Wesnoth 0.9.3 (if I am not
mistaken) in 2005 year.
It was then at times abandoned, until some fans took a job of maintaining it.
In addition, a load of people were contributing patches, corrections and
suggestions. The current version of ANO is effect of tremendous effort made
by Spencer "The Sigil" Cooley, who not only spent endless nights at
porting the campaign to the Wesnoth 1.9, but also reread all the story
and tweaked it to make it more consistent and believeable. In addition, he
rebalanced the factions and scenarios (remember, ANO was written for
Wesnoth 0.9.3). He contributed
so much that I felt I had no other choice that to do the same. As I had
some free time, I did my best to help him. We spent a lot of time discussing
the changes and even fighting about choice of the proper words in some scenarios; 
Hope the result will satisfy you. However, please remember that Sigil made
the bulk of the effort and all thankyou's should go to him. 

"Actually, I like this campaign. Tricky story and incredible scripting make it worth of playing. "

This campaign was the first to employ several features. Switching the leaders,
their armies and recruitment lists 
between scenarios required a lot of painful work at the time of 0.9.7 and
while now several other campaigns employ this trick, in 2005 this was completely
novel. The mid-scenario strategic maps were previously used in one unfinished
campaign, and I think it were first time used to such effect in ANO. Interrogations
of enemy leaders was another innovation introduced by ANO. Assigning points to
the player depending on his performance was yet another.

The campaign was praised by multiple people. 

"Hi! I usually don't post much, but I just want to say that this is a marvelous campaign!!! I haven't enjoyed an add-on as much as this since IftU - story, dialogue etc."

"I just finished the campaign and it was with no doubt one of the most amazing campaigns i played. It felt like a "next-gen" Wesnoth at times, with the unmatched level of interaction with NPCs, large-scale maps, training levels, etc. So thanks a LOT for all the effort you must have put into this, it was really fun to play through."

"Hello, first post in the forums... :) I had to register just to say how great campaign this one is. :) .. I gave a try to ANO. I was pleasantly surprised of the quality of the storyline and of the new units/races."

"i think its one of the three best campaings i have ever play."

"I played it years ago, never was able to finish, and found it to be one of the most original and interesting campaigns in all of Wesnoth. I can't wait to try it again."

In the past, people identified several shortcommings of the campaign. Some were
complaining that ANO lacks any music. Now we have pieces composed by Christian
Hellerberg especially for this campaign. Also, Nick Humphrey kindly agreed to
let us use his music and in addition we used music by Mattias Westlund, Doug
Hoffman and  Tyler Johnson. Few people were complaining about the typos and
awkward sentences (since I am Polish, usually I write according to the idioms
and flow of my native language). Well, since you are reading this, you probably
already noticed what they meant :). One player noticed that:

"It is painfully obvious that English is not the original author's first
language, yet on the other side of that same token, the prose is so well
written that the one who wrote it put forth an effort, which was nothing short
of astounding. Perhaps it was a matter that the sheer effort put forth to write
it in coherent English, being put forth by an intelligent person, could not
have produced a work, which was not of high quality." (Thanks :) )

This was partially corrected in the past already by previous 
maintainers (thanks Typhoon and Turuk), but Sigil now read the whole storyline,
and rewrite some parts anew when necessary. 

Surprisingly few people complained about the art, but even this was corrected.
For this new release we commission professional artists to create portraits and
story images. We use art by Santiago Iborra, Łukasz Zaręba
plus several compositions by me and Sigil. While it resulted at lower number
of images and portraits overall, I hope the quality makes for the loss of the
quantity.

Finally, at least two people noticed, that:

"The beginning of the campaign where you fight mostly akladian versus
akladian is a bit boring an annoying. It took me a few time to go
through it. After Barnon, thinks become really interesting and fun. It
is really worth going on."

We tried to correct this a bit.

"I've played through it on easy level in the last few days and it was again a
stunning experience, the best campaign I've ever played on Wesnoth!
... The story is brilliant, it's something totally new, with new units I really
liked, the whole story is well-thought-out, I couldn't stop play because I
wanted the story to continue."

I would want to use this opportunity to thanks all those who contributed to ANO
in the past. I've never had opportunity to say them how much I was grateful for
their contributions.

First of all, I want to thanks previous maintainers of ANO: they were typhoon
(Micheal P. Kochis), tapik (Otto Buchta) and Vincent Croisier (viorc). They
also spent numerous hours correcting bugs and typos. In addition I want to
thank a lot of other people:

* Turuk (he actually didn't like the campaign, but he spent nevertheless hours
  to correct typos and grammar. BTW the only person who said that the ANO had
  horrendous dialogue and the storyline needs changes. Thanks for keeping me
  humble :) ) 
* Vincent Croisier (viorc) for team coloring the sprites
* Peter Geinitz (shadow aka wayfarer) for sprites corrections
* unsung, ott, capitol, ave, Tomek Sikorski (tomsik), teldar, tapik, derek,
  alxrem,malin keshar and T3st3r for bug reporting and typo corrections.
  Especially Malin for contributing ready patches :)
* all the translators of ANO: David Philippi, Jose Gordillo, Otto Tapik, Piotr
  Cychowski, Harry Dewulf, Joe Hansen, Geoffroy Douillie, Simon Sobisch,
  Brivido, Alexet Remizov, nikita, capitol, Stephen Bergstrom (tephlon), Eduardo
  Jose Papa, Nilgun Belma Buguner.
* And also elvish pillager, turin, jetryl, pickslide, Nils Kneuper, scott - for
  patience, hints and advices when I was developing the first version of ANO
  and the wonderful atmosphere at wesnoth forums they helped to create.

SPOILER: 

Sigil argued that Andrey Yaranov was too easy-going person. He replaced him by
Majid Yahyazad, with the goal of adding more depth to the relations between him
and Lorin. He added also more touches to give more justice to Ruvio. I hope
you will like these changes. Aragwaithi were replaced by Khalifa.
