Syn Gawena, XXX (Haldric? Gawen? Majid?).

1. XXX wsrod Khalifa
2. Bunt przeciwko Gawenowi - ginie Majid, podobno z ręki króla. XXX
   poprzysiega, że zabije tego, kto uśmiercił jego ojca.
3. Jako posel przybywa Caerwyn oraz Akladyjscy panowie, XXX decyduje ruszyć do
   Vattin, by uśmiercić króla, ale po rozmowie z Lorin rezygnuje. Zamiast tego
   rusza jego brat.
4. Brat XXXa zabija Gawena, o czym XXX nie wie. Wojska wesnoth scigaja Khalifa.
5. Akladyjczycy pomagają się wymknąć XXXowi. Po drodze spotyka Deoriena, ktory
   potwierdza, że ojcem XXXa byl Gawen. XXX uroczyscie potwierdza przysiege, ze
   zabije tego, kto zabil jego ojca. Do XXXa dołącza jego brat.
6. XXX z Akladyjczykami rusza na wschod, przedziera się przez bagna i pustynię.
   Razem z nim rusza Deorien. Akladyjczycy wymieraja - akladyjskie kobiety nie
   rodzą dzieci. Caerwynn decyduje się im pomoc.
7. XXX dociera do ruin zamku Grekulaka
8. W podziemiach XXX nie odkrywa niczego. Deorien niszczy dziela Grekulaka, by
   cala jego wiedza przepadla. Gracz może mu pozwolić odejść, wtedy Deorien 
   przestaje nosić białe szaty; albo też może go zabić.
9. ? Czy udaje im się odkryć, czy też nie, co powoduje wymieranie
   Akladyjczyków? Czy XXX zabije brata?

Caerwyn z posłami przybywa do Khalifa: XXX rusza go ratować.. sam ledwo zywy
dociera do całej armii Paladynów i deklaruje, że przybył go ratować. Caerwyn
uprzejmie wysłuchuje i dziękuje za pomoc. Gracz powinien się domyśleć, że tak
naprawdę to Caerwyn uratował Gawena.

Akladyjczycy chcą wznowić zwyczaje przodków, odejść z Wesnoth, by żyć po swojemu.
Przeczytałem, że nasi przodkowie nie umieli czytać.. Przeczytałeś o tym? Tak. Aha.

Jeden mężczyzna zostaje oślepiony, gracz musi podjąć decyzję, czy go zostawić,
czy też zabrać ze sobą. Później, traci wzrok jedna z postaic bliska graczowi i
gracz musi podjąć analogiczną decyzję.

Caerwyn zakochany jest w dziewczynie, ktora ocalala z Freetown -- jej cala rodzine
zabil Bor Cryne, osobiscie torturujac jej ojca.
----------
Father expelled our mother.

Again?

Yes.
---------------
There is something, I should tell you, XXX. You see.. Majid is not your real
father.

Oh my God! My whole world is crumbling! I would never suspect something like this! I don't know, how I can live now with such...

XXX, stop fooling around. I am deadly serious.

So am I, mother. Maybe if you would tell me that ten years ago, I would be surprised. But not now. I am not blind, nor deaf. I realised that Majid couldn't be my
father many years ago.

Really? 

Yes, really. For starters, I have blue eyes. Neither you or Majid have blue
eyes, and as far as I know they are extremely rare amongst the Khalifa. Not 
to mention that I heard many times how you were fighting with father.

So you know Majid is not your real father.. yet you call him that. 

Yes. He was like a father to me. So. is that all what you wanted to tell me, or
is there something more?

Stop being such an arsehole, XXX. If you are so smart, then probably you also
know who was your real father?

No, I don't. Do not tell me you know.

You should show some respect to your mother.

I am still here. (long pause) Ok, Ok. So, who was my real father.

Gawen Haldric Hagarthen, king of Vakladia.

What? Ha, ha, and I thought you were serious when you said you knew.

I am serious, XXX. You are son of the king.

And what should I do? Probably you expect me to go my father, kiss him and we will
become one huge loving family? 

Listen, XXX...

Ah, and Majid. Majid probably would go to my father, kiss him and propose you will three all share one bed. 

Shut up and listen. Gawen is your father. You are the only heir to the throne
of the united Wesnoth-Vakladia. 

Yeah, sure. The problem is no one knows about it except you. 

And Gawen. Gawen knows you are his son.. But he cannot admit it.

Now it's getting better with every minute.

XXX, you know I am Akladian. Listen, I was queen of Vakladia, wife to the father of Gawen...

I knew it will be great story, but it's better than I thought.

Stop interrupting me, XXX. You must listen! There was once Akladian custom,
that widows
cannot have another man after the death of their husband. That's why I was
blinded and exiled. I seduced Gawen when he was drunk. If Akladian lords would
find out that he was your father, they would rebell against him, as they would
think he committed great sin in the eyes of their God. Moreover, they would not
recognise you as king, as you are the son of the illegal relationship... 

Mother, are you going somewhere with that story? So I am the only heir to the 
Wesnoth, but I can't be king, because Akladian lords won't recognise me.

Yes. But you will be king. The Oracle told me.

Really?

Yes. I asked her whether you will be ruling over Akladians; she answered
me that yes, you will. This is your destiny.

This is all? Then mother, please allow me to leave.

----
Why do you hate our mother?

I do not hate her. I love her.

Then why you behave...

I don't know. You know, when I was little boy I had never understood why Majid
and Lorin where constantly fighting over. I don't know what I did wrong many
times when Lorin or Majid was screaming at me. And all those days when she was
beating me, because "you are my son and you must learn how to resist pain". And
when she were throwing away my toys... Or when instead of playing, I had to
practice, practice, practice. 




