Storyline:
Background:
The Akladians are a nation of barbarians who have conquered the civilized kingdom
Wesnoth and, on its ruins, founded their own states. They rule them
representatives of the Hagarthen family. Dark-skinned, savage barbarians despise
conquered Wesnothians, calling them "underlings". They also vary from them by
habits (not using magic, hating elves) and possess a religion according to which
the Akladians are the race chosen to rule the world. Wesnothians have no religion.

The main character of the campaign is Gawen Hagarthen. He is the son of a king of
Vakladia. His mother came from the royal family of Wesnoth and was poisoned
shortly after giving birth to her son. Gawen's father then married Lorin, an
Akladian girl from a family with great ambitions. The campaign begins after the
battle in which Gawen's father is killed and Gawen is badly wounded (and wakes up
with amnesia). The first three scenarios are practice and introduction of the
player to the story. As a result, Gawen, with the help of faithful Reme and his
caring, young stepmother Lorin return to the capital, defeating the rebels.

In the capital, it turns out that the Akladians are rebelling against Gawen, some
of them consider him to be a hybrid unworthy of sitting on the throne. Gawen
rushes to the head of his troops against the rebels. In battle, most of his
own army betrays him, among them the cruel Bor Cryne; Gawen commands Reme to take
Lorin, and he fights to the end, covering their retreat.

Reme abandons Lorin, claiming he has sworn allegiance to the Hagarthen clan and not
hers; he leaves her some gold and some soldiers. Lorin hires mercenaries and
acquires her own castle.

Meanwhile, Gawen survived the battle, he was brought out of the battlefield by
Ruvio - a Wesnothian, leader of the rebels. It turns out that Ruvio was a trusted
courtier Gawen's mother; moreover, Gawen's mother and Ruvio were to be married
before Gawen's father decided that he had to join the Wesnothian aristocracy. Ruvio
has a new family, several daughters, among them is the eldest, floppy Karen. At
the head of the rebel army, Gawen is quickly gaining recognition under a new
name. He also discovers the rebel base, Freetown, where they live as free people.

Gawen soon meets Lorin, who is disgusted with not only the fact that her stepson
is growing a beard, but also that he grows in the company "underlings". Following
a deliberation in Freetown, Gawen learns that armies of orcs are coming to
Vakladia. Gawen makes a reconnaissance, as a result of which learns of Bor Cryne's
alliance with the orcs, and the arrival of a new person, the mysterious "messiah"
(to use the Greek term), who is supposed to allow the Akladians to conquer rest
of the world.

The rebels decide to seek out the Oracle to ask for advice and to find the last
mages in Wesnoth. Gawen's army manages to free the Oracle from under the siege
of four armies. Lorin and the Oracle have a conversation that is completely
incomprehensible to Gawen, and it has a devastating effect on Lorin. 
